[Project Summary](index.md) | [Use Cases](use_cases.md) | [Requirements](requirements.md) | [High-Level Design](high_level_design.md) | [Modules](modules.md) | [Design Rationale](design_rationale.md) | [Conclusion](conclusion.md)

## Use Cases

## Use Case 1: Alex Books a Hotel (Happy-Path)

Alex is a 27-year-old paralegal living in Nashville, Tennessee. She is single and stays busy between her job at the firm and going to concerts in Nashville with her friends. It has been a while since she has visited her college friends in Michigan, so she decides to take a few days off work and fly up to Detroit, rent a car, and spend the weekend at a nice hotel in Ann Arbor while she visits her friends who stayed in the area. She has booked hotels through Expedia and other trip-planning sites before, but she has never been impressed with their recommendation and usually overrides the default sorting method to sort the results by user reviews rather than the recommended picks based on some proprietary algorithm. She logs into ##get-a-room## application and is forwarded to the main interface. She wants to book a new trip, so she selects the ##Search Hotels## option and enters Ann Arbor in the search criteria and is presented with a handful of recommended results. She immediately recognizes a couple of brand name hotels she likes are listed high in the results, and sees a lot of positive reviews at the top of the results. After considering the recommendations, she selects a modern, clean-looking hotel right near the university and is directed to the payment screen. Alex enters her payment information in the ##Payment## tab and submits it for processing. ##Get-a-room## displays the confirmation details of her reservation and Alex exits the program. She checks her email to find a copy of the receipt and her confirmation details for the hotel, including important phone numbers, addresses, and email addresses to clarify any questions she has as the trip approaches. A month later, she gets a reminder sent to her email that her trip is about to begin and when she arrives, she pulls up the confirmation email just in case the hotel lost her information, but they had not.

## Use Case 2: Alex Cancels Her Trip (Cancel-Trip-And-Get-Refund)

About three weeks before her scheduled trip to Ann Arbor, Alex gets selected to contribute to an important case for her firm. It’s a big opportunity and – as an aspiring attorney – not one she can afford to pass up. She calls up her friends she was planning to visit and tells them she’ll have to postpone to some unknown future date. Luckily, the determination was made well in advance of her trip so she was still eligible for a refund. She opens ##get-a-room## once again and is directed to the main interface. She selects the ##Itinerary Management## option, looking for her trip she already booked. She sees the Ann Arbor trip and selects it. She navigates to the ##Cancel Reservation## and, with a little sadness, selects it. Upon cancellation, she is presented with a screen that states the reservation has been successfully cancelled and that her refund will be processed. The same message arrives in her email and within 48 hours she sees the money has been returned to her account. Maybe she will try again in the spring!
